This code challenge is a direct follow up to the previous code challenge.
You definitely need to have solved the previous code challenge before doing this one, or at least be
familiar with my code solution.
In fact, this code challenge here is almost the same thing, except that you will analyze the neurons
instead of the MLP neurons.
So exercise one is actually just copying exercises one through three from the previous code challenge.
In fact, what I recommend doing is making a copy of the previous code challenge notebook file and then
modifying and deleting things from that notebook.
For one thing, you don't need any of the visualizations from exercises one through three, so you can
get rid of all of those.
Of course, the main change here is to modify the hook functions so that you get the qkv activations
instead of the MLP expansion layer activations, and make sure you get the pre attention activations.
I don't think you'll have difficulties with this code challenge.
I will now switch to code, but only briefly just to discuss the changes that I made to hook the Qkv
activations.
Here I import here.
I call this exercise one A.
So that was exercise one from the previous code challenge getting GPT two large, putting it on the
GPU.
Although as I mentioned for the previous code challenge, you don't really need the GPU here.
It's fine also to use the CPU.
So here is where I define the function to create the hooks.
You can see that instead of grabbing the MLP layer, I'm grabbing the attention layer and then C attention.
These are the variables immediately before they get pushed through the attention equation.
So if you want the post attention numbers, then you will need to explicitly run through the attention
equation.
So this output here is the output of this multiplication.
Here this linear layer which is the q, v and k vectors for the tokens that you push through the model
pre attention.
Okay.
So that's that.
And then yeah here is uh here I call this exercise one b.
This was exercise two in the previous video.
I changed nothing here.
This is all exactly the same.
Uh all I did was delete the printing out, uh, of the examples.
And then exercise one c here was exercise three from the previous video.
Again, I didn't change anything except to just preserve the conformation of the shapes.
Now, of course, the sizes here are different because the MLP layers have that four x expansion, whereas
here we only have A3X expansion corresponding to the q, the k and the v vectors all being concatenated
into one wide matrix.
Now for exercise two.
This is very similar to exercise six from the previous code challenge.
Of course, we're working with the Qvq matrix instead of the MLP matrix.
You can run the analyses on the concatenated matrix that contains all of the qvq neurons.
And then for visualization, you want to separate the neurons into their three different matrices.
Now remember that in the previous code challenge that you showed the accuracy for all the neurons,
and separately for only the neurons with the positive betas here, because we're already plotting three
different things for the three different matrices, you can just focus on the accuracy from the neurons
that have a statistically significant positive beta value.
Another thing that I would like you to do here is to use the PyTorch method split to separate the results
into the three matrices.
So just to make sure that this part is really clear, remember that the open AI models have the queries,
the keys, and the values matrices all concatenated into one wide matrix.
But for this visualization, you want to split that concatenated matrix into three separate matrices.
There are several ways that you can do this, including just simple indexing and slicing.
Thing.
However, there is a method on PyTorch tensors called dot split.
It's a pretty handy function to know about and to be comfortable using.
So I would like you to use this method to split these matrices for this exercise.
Okay, so I hope you enjoy working through this exercise.
Of course, you should not just run the code and look at the plots, but think about the differences
between what you saw here and what you saw in the previous code challenge.
In fact, it's probably a good idea to leave the notebook file from the previous video open so that
you can easily compare the two sets of results for the two different populations of neurons.
Okay, and now I will switch to code.
These first two code cells here are literally copy pasted up, not literally copy pasted.
I did change the MLP to attention, but otherwise it's it's basically the same as in the previous code
challenge.
And then over here most of this code is the same.
This code is new here.
Now the method split is a method that operates on PyTorch tensors.
It does not operate on numpy arrays or Python lists or dictionaries or any other kind of variable.
It's really just on PyTorch tensors.
So to get this to work, you actually need to first convert this masked array matrix into a PyTorch
tensor, and only then can you use the split method on that tensor.
So that was actually one of my goals for this exercise was to get you to, uh, know about this method,
but also appreciate that there are times when there are certain methods or functions that are really
handy to use, but you need to do a data type conversion in order to be able to use them.
Okay, so the way that you use this split method is to provide at least one input and possibly two.
And the first input is the number of rows or the number of elements that you want to split by.
In this case, it's n dimension, because this matrix here is embeddings times three for the q, k and
v matrices.
And then you need to specify the dimension along which you want to split the one input into however
many it ends up being.
So this matrix is has the number of columns corresponding to n embed times three.
So that's why the first input is n embed.
And then because we're separating by columns which are the second dimension I write dim equals one.
And that gives me the three matrices.
Pretty handy function to be familiar with.
Okay, so now we see the results.
And they look overall quite similar to the results that we saw in the previous video with the MLP neurons.
In particular, the percent of significant neurons that had significant beta values.
So significantly different activation values for negation terms versus affirmation terms that generally
decrease from somewhere around 70% to somewhere a little around under 30%.
As we go deeper into the layer, so that looks qualitatively very similar to the MLP.
And here we see also very similar to what we saw with the MLP neurons, that the prediction accuracy
for these significant neurons starts from around 7,075% down to around 60%, maybe a little bit lower.
Now, by the way, the fact that these include only the significant positive betas neurons with significant
positive betas tells you that even amongst the neurons where the prediction is significant, the prediction
accuracy is lower.
So even though there still we're only plotting these significant neurons.
So we're just selecting these significant neurons.
The magnitude of the effect the effect size is generally pretty low.
Also remember that 50% corresponds to chance level literally purely guessing.
And so this is technically significantly better than chance.
But it's not that much better.
This first point here is very general about coding.
Taking the time to understand and write out code is always time well spent and wisely invested.
This is particularly true when you're learning a new field.
I know it's very tempting to like vibe code and have ChatGPT or some other LLM write a lot of code for
you.
Now, I do sometimes get llms to code for me, but my honest opinion is that it's usually not worth
it.
Partly because still, after all this time, I find that ChatGPT makes a lot of coding errors, but
also because if you do not take the time to really understand the code that you're using, then it's
hard to know what the code is doing.
It's even harder to trust that you're doing it correctly in different applications.
Now, that said, I do find ChatGPT very useful for helping me debug my own code.
But anyway, this is just a bit of a meta comment about using Llms in a course about understanding Llms.
The main thing I wanted to say here is that although you will find differences across different transformer
layers and different populations of artificial neurons.
The population level differences are generally more quantitative than qualitative.
That is to say, the characteristics and the features that you will find in one part of the model,
you'll probably find everywhere else in the model.
Now, maybe more of those characteristics you'll find in one part or a different part.
But it does seem like the representations and the calculations in Llms are really distributed within
and across layers.
They're not really modularly different the way that, for example, your liver and your lung are qualitatively
doing completely different things.
And that's probably a good final statement for this section and a good segue into the next section where
we will focus on a higher level of organization in Llms.